README.markdown, before:

## Django Bootstrap Pagination

This application serves to make using Twitter's Bootstrap Pagination styles
work seamlessly with Django Page objects. By passing in a Page object and
one or more optional arguments, Bootstrap pagination bars and pagers can
be rendered with very little effort.

Compatible with Django 1.3+

## Installation

### PIP

This will install the latest stable release from PyPi.

```
    pip install django-bootstrap-pagination
```

### Download

Download the latest stable distribution from:

http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-bootstrap-pagination

Download the latest development version from:

github @ http://www.github.com/jmcclell/django-bootstrap-pagination


```
    setup.py install
```
## Usage

### Setup

Make sure you include bootstrap-pagination in your installed_apps list in settings.py:

```
    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        'bootstrap-pagination',
    )
```

Additionally, include the following snippet at the top of any template that makes use of
the pagination tags:

```
    {% load bootstrap_pagination %}
```

# bootstrap_paginate

**All Optional Arguments**

- **range** - Defines the maximum number of page links to show
- **show_prev_next** - Boolean. Defines whether or not to show the Previous and Next
                       links. (Accepts "true" or "false")
- **previous_label** - The label to use for the Previous link
- **next_label** - The label to use for the Next link
- **show_first_last** - Boolean. Defines whether or not to show the First and Last links.
                       (Accepts "true" or "false")
- **first_label** - The label to use for the First page link
- **last_label** - The label to use for the Last page link
- **alignment** - How to align the pagination bar. Defaults to "center". 
                  (Accepts "left", "center", and "right")
- **url_view_name** - A named URL reference (such as one that might get passed inti the URL
                      template tag) to use as the URL template. Must be resolvable by the
                      reverse() function. **If this option is not specified, the tag simply
                      uses a relative url such as "?page=1" which is fine in most situations**
- **url_param_name** - Determines the name of the GET parameter for the page number. Th
                       default is "page". If no **url_view_name** is defined, this string
                       is appended to the url as "?{{url_param_name}}=1".
- **url_extra_args** - **Only valid when url_view_name is set.** Additional arguments to
                       pass into reverse() to resolve the URL.
- **url_extra_kwargs** - **Only valid when url_view_name is set.** Additional named
                         arguments to pass into reverse() to resolve the URL. Additionally,
                         the template tag will add an extra parameter to this for the
                         page, as it is assumed that if given a url_name, the page will
                         be a named variable in the URL regular expression. In this case,
                         the **url_param_name** continues to be the string used to represent
                         the name. That is, by default, **url_param_name** is equal to "page"
                         and thus it is expected that there is a named "page" argument in the
                         URL referenced by **url_view_name**. This allows us to use pretty
                         pagination URLs such as "/page/1"

**Basic Usage**

The following will show a pagination bar with a link to every page, a previous link, and a next link:

```
    {% bootstrap_paginate page_obj %}
```

The following will show a pagination bar with at most 10 page links, a previous link, and a next link:

```
    {% bootstrap_paginate page_obj range=10 %}
```

The following will show a pagination bar with at most 10 page links, a first page link, and a last page link:

```
    {% bootstrap_paginate page_obj range=10 show_prev_next="false" show_first_last="true" %}
```

**Advanced Usage**

Given a url configured such as:

```python
    archive_index_view = ArchiveIndexView.as_view(
        date_field='date',
        paginate_by=10,            
        allow_empty=True,
        queryset=MyModel.all(),
        template_name='example/archive.html'    
    )
    
    urlpatterns = patterns(
        'example.views',
        url(r'^$', archive_index_view, name='archive_index'),
        url(r'^page/(?P<page>\d+)/$', archive_index_view,
            name='archive_index_paginated'))
```

We could simply use the basic usage (appending ?page=#) with the *archive_index* URL above,
as the *archive_index_view* class based generic view from django doesn't care how it gets
the page parameter. However, if we want pretty URLs, such as those defined in the
*archive_index_paginated* URL (ie: /page/1), we need to define the URL in our template tag:


```
    {% bootstrap_paginate page_obj url_view_name="archive_index_paginated" %}
```

Because we are using a default page parameter name of "page" and our URL requires no other
parameters, everything works as expected. If our URL required additional parameters, we
would pass them in using the optional arguments **url_extra_args** and **url_extra_kwargs**.
Likewise, if our page parameter had a different name, we would pass in a different
**url_param_name** argument to the template tag.

#bootstrap_pager

A much simpler implementation of the Bootstrap Pagination functionality is the Pager, which
simply provides a Previous and Next link.

**All Optional Arguments**

- **previous_label** - Defines the label for the Previous link
- **next_label** - Defines the label for the Next link
- **previous_title** - Defines the link title for the previous link
- **next_title** - Defines the link title for the next link
- **centered** - Boolean. Defines whether or not the links are centered. Defaults to false.
                 (Accepts "true" or "false")
- **url_view_name** - A named URL reference (such as one that might get passed inti the URL
                      template tag) to use as the URL template. Must be resolvable by the
                      reverse() function. **If this option is not specified, the tag simply
                      uses a relative url such as "?page=1" which is fine in most situations**
- **url_param_name** - Determines the name of the GET parameter for the page number. Th
                       default is "page". If no **url_view_name** is defined, this string
                       is appended to the url as "?{{url_param_name}}=1".
- **url_extra_args** - **Only valid when url_view_name is set.** Additional arguments to
                       pass into reverse() to resolve the URL.
- **url_extra_kwargs** - **Only valid when url_view_name is set.** Additional named
                         arguments to pass into reverse() to resolve the URL. Additionally,
                         the template tag will add an extra parameter to this for the
                         page, as it is assumed that if given a url_name, the page will
                         be a named variable in the URL regular expression. In this case,
                         the **url_param_name** continues to be the string used to represent
                         the name. That is, by default, **url_param_name** is equal to "page"
                         and thus it is expected that there is a named "page" argument in the
                         URL referenced by **url_view_name**. This allows us to use pretty
                         pagination URLs such as "/page/1"
                 
**Usage**

Usage is basically the same as for bootstrap_paginate. The simplest usage is:

```
    {% bootstrap_pager page_obj %}
```

A somewhat more advanced usage might look like:

```
    {% bootstrap_pager page_obj previous_label="Newer Posts" next_label="Older Posts" url_view_name="post_archive_paginated" %}
```

Commit message:

Mention 'request' context processor in documentation

README.markdown, after:

## Django Bootstrap Pagination

This application serves to make using Twitter's Bootstrap Pagination styles
work seamlessly with Django Page objects. By passing in a Page object and
one or more optional arguments, Bootstrap pagination bars and pagers can
be rendered with very little effort.

Compatible with Django 1.3+

## Installation

### PIP

This will install the latest stable release from PyPi.

```
    pip install django-bootstrap-pagination
```

### Download

Download the latest stable distribution from:

http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-bootstrap-pagination

Download the latest development version from:

github @ http://www.github.com/jmcclell/django-bootstrap-pagination


```
    setup.py install
```
## Usage

### Setup

Make sure you include 'request' context processor in your TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS list in settings.py:

```
    TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS = (
        ...
        'django.core.context_processors.request',
        ...
    )
```

Make sure you include bootstrap-pagination in your installed_apps list in settings.py:

```
    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        'bootstrap-pagination',
    )
```

Additionally, include the following snippet at the top of any template that makes use of
the pagination tags:

```
    {% load bootstrap_pagination %}
```

# bootstrap_paginate

**All Optional Arguments**

- **range** - Defines the maximum number of page links to show
- **show_prev_next** - Boolean. Defines whether or not to show the Previous and Next
                       links. (Accepts "true" or "false")
- **previous_label** - The label to use for the Previous link
- **next_label** - The label to use for the Next link
- **show_first_last** - Boolean. Defines whether or not to show the First and Last links.
                       (Accepts "true" or "false")
- **first_label** - The label to use for the First page link
- **last_label** - The label to use for the Last page link
- **alignment** - How to align the pagination bar. Defaults to "center".
                  (Accepts "left", "center", and "right")
- **url_view_name** - A named URL reference (such as one that might get passed inti the URL
                      template tag) to use as the URL template. Must be resolvable by the
                      reverse() function. **If this option is not specified, the tag simply
                      uses a relative url such as "?page=1" which is fine in most situations**
- **url_param_name** - Determines the name of the GET parameter for the page number. Th
                       default is "page". If no **url_view_name** is defined, this string
                       is appended to the url as "?{{url_param_name}}=1".
- **url_extra_args** - **Only valid when url_view_name is set.** Additional arguments to
                       pass into reverse() to resolve the URL.
- **url_extra_kwargs** - **Only valid when url_view_name is set.** Additional named
                         arguments to pass into reverse() to resolve the URL. Additionally,
                         the template tag will add an extra parameter to this for the
                         page, as it is assumed that if given a url_name, the page will
                         be a named variable in the URL regular expression. In this case,
                         the **url_param_name** continues to be the string used to represent
                         the name. That is, by default, **url_param_name** is equal to "page"
                         and thus it is expected that there is a named "page" argument in the
                         URL referenced by **url_view_name**. This allows us to use pretty
                         pagination URLs such as "/page/1"

**Basic Usage**

The following will show a pagination bar with a link to every page, a previous link, and a next link:

```
    {% bootstrap_paginate page_obj %}
```

The following will show a pagination bar with at most 10 page links, a previous link, and a next link:

```
    {% bootstrap_paginate page_obj range=10 %}
```

The following will show a pagination bar with at most 10 page links, a first page link, and a last page link:

```
    {% bootstrap_paginate page_obj range=10 show_prev_next="false" show_first_last="true" %}
```

**Advanced Usage**

Given a url configured such as:

```python
    archive_index_view = ArchiveIndexView.as_view(
        date_field='date',
        paginate_by=10,
        allow_empty=True,
        queryset=MyModel.all(),
        template_name='example/archive.html'
    )

    urlpatterns = patterns(
        'example.views',
        url(r'^$', archive_index_view, name='archive_index'),
        url(r'^page/(?P<page>\d+)/$', archive_index_view,
            name='archive_index_paginated'))
```

We could simply use the basic usage (appending ?page=#) with the *archive_index* URL above,
as the *archive_index_view* class based generic view from django doesn't care how it gets
the page parameter. However, if we want pretty URLs, such as those defined in the
*archive_index_paginated* URL (ie: /page/1), we need to define the URL in our template tag:


```
    {% bootstrap_paginate page_obj url_view_name="archive_index_paginated" %}
```

Because we are using a default page parameter name of "page" and our URL requires no other
parameters, everything works as expected. If our URL required additional parameters, we
would pass them in using the optional arguments **url_extra_args** and **url_extra_kwargs**.
Likewise, if our page parameter had a different name, we would pass in a different
**url_param_name** argument to the template tag.

#bootstrap_pager

A much simpler implementation of the Bootstrap Pagination functionality is the Pager, which
simply provides a Previous and Next link.

**All Optional Arguments**

- **previous_label** - Defines the label for the Previous link
- **next_label** - Defines the label for the Next link
- **previous_title** - Defines the link title for the previous link
- **next_title** - Defines the link title for the next link
- **centered** - Boolean. Defines whether or not the links are centered. Defaults to false.
                 (Accepts "true" or "false")
- **url_view_name** - A named URL reference (such as one that might get passed inti the URL
                      template tag) to use as the URL template. Must be resolvable by the
                      reverse() function. **If this option is not specified, the tag simply
                      uses a relative url such as "?page=1" which is fine in most situations**
- **url_param_name** - Determines the name of the GET parameter for the page number. Th
                       default is "page". If no **url_view_name** is defined, this string
                       is appended to the url as "?{{url_param_name}}=1".
- **url_extra_args** - **Only valid when url_view_name is set.** Additional arguments to
                       pass into reverse() to resolve the URL.
- **url_extra_kwargs** - **Only valid when url_view_name is set.** Additional named
                         arguments to pass into reverse() to resolve the URL. Additionally,
                         the template tag will add an extra parameter to this for the
                         page, as it is assumed that if given a url_name, the page will
                         be a named variable in the URL regular expression. In this case,
                         the **url_param_name** continues to be the string used to represent
                         the name. That is, by default, **url_param_name** is equal to "page"
                         and thus it is expected that there is a named "page" argument in the
                         URL referenced by **url_view_name**. This allows us to use pretty
                         pagination URLs such as "/page/1"

**Usage**

Usage is basically the same as for bootstrap_paginate. The simplest usage is:

```
    {% bootstrap_pager page_obj %}
```

A somewhat more advanced usage might look like:

```
    {% bootstrap_pager page_obj previous_label="Newer Posts" next_label="Older Posts" url_view_name="post_archive_paginated" %}
```
